# BEGIN PROB

Which of the following blocks of code correctly assign `max_AP` to the
maximum number of APs taken by a student who was rejected by UC San
Diego?

Option 1:

    cond1 = students["Admit"] == "N"
    cond2 = students["University"] == "UC San Diego"
    max_AP = students.loc[cond1 & cond2, "APs"].sort_values().iloc[-1]

Option 2:

    cond1 = students["Admit"] == "N"
    cond2 = students["University"] == "UC San Diego"
    d3 = students.groupby(["University", "Admit"]).max().reset_index()
    max_AP = d3.loc[cond1 & cond2, "APs"].iloc[0]

Option 3:

    p = students.pivot_table(index="Admit", 
                             columns="University", 
                             values="APs", 
                             aggfunc="max")
    max_AP = p.loc["N", "UC San Diego"]

Option 4:

    # .last() returns the element at the end of a Series it is called on
    groups = students.sort_values(["APs", "Admit"]).groupby("University")
    max_AP = groups["APs"].last()["UC San Diego"]

**Select all that apply.** There is at least one correct option.

[ ] Option 1

[ ] Option 2

[ ] Option 3

[ ] Option 4

# BEGIN SOLN

-   Option 1 works correctly, it is probably the most straightforward
    way of answering the question. `cond1` is `True` for all rows in
    which students were rejected, and `cond2` is `True` for all rows in
    which students applied to UCSD. As such,
    `students.loc[cond1 & cond2]` contains only the rows where students
    were rejected from UCSD. Then,
    `students.loc[cond1 & cond2, "APs"].sort_values()` sorts by the
    number of `"APs"` taken in increasing order, and `.iloc[-1]` gets
    the largest number of `"APs"` taken.

-   Option 2 doesn't work because the lengths of `cond1` and `cond2` are
    not the same as the length of `d3`, so this causes an error. This is
    on the right track, though --- if and were defined in the last line
    of Option 2, and used `d3` instead of `students`, this would work.

-   Option 3 works correctly --- for each combination of `"Admit"`
    status (`"Y"`, `"N"`, `"W"`) and `"University"` (including UC San
    Diego), it computes the max number of `"APs"`. The usage of
    `.loc["N", "UC San Diego"]` is correct, too.

-   Option 4 doesn't work. It currently returns the maximum number of
    `"APs"` taken by someone who applied to UC San Diego; it does not
    factor in whether they were admitted, rejected, or waitlisted. The
    reason it computes the maximum number of `"APs"` is due to the fact
    that we sorted by `"APs"` in increasing order and then took the last
    row for each group, meaning we found the largest number of `"APs"`
    for each group. The role of `[..., "Admit"]` in `sort_values` was to
    break ties --- if there were multiple students with the same number
    of `"APs"`, students with admit statuses that came earlier in the
    alphabet would appear before students with admit statuses that came
    later in the alphabet.

# END SOLN

# END PROB