# BEGIN PROB

As a music enthusiast who checks Spotify's Top 200 daily, you have
noticed that many more songs from the "Hip-Hop/Rap\" genre were popular
in 2021 than were popular in years prior. You decide to investigate
whether this could have happened by chance, or if Hip-Hop/Rap is
actually becoming more popular.

You acquire ten DataFrames, one for each year between 2012 and 2021
(inclusive), containing the Top 200 songs on each day of each year. Each
DataFrame has four columns, `"year"`, `"artist_names"`, `"track_name"`,
and `"genre"`, and $365 \cdot 200 = 73000$ rows (or, in the case of leap
years 2012 and 2016, $366 \cdot 200 = 73200$ rows). You concatenate
these DataFrames into a big DataFrame called `all_years`.

To conduct a hypothesis test, you assume that all of the songs that were
ever in the Top 200 in a particular year are a sample of all popular
songs from that year. As such, `all_years` contains a sample of all
popular songs from 2012-2021. Your hypotheses are as follows:

-   **Null Hypothesis**: The number of unique Hip-Hop/Rap songs that
    were popular in 2021 is equal to the average number of unique
    Hip-Hop/Rap songs that were popular each year between 2012 and 2021
    (inclusive).

-   **Alternative Hypothesis:** The number of unique Hip-Hop/Rap songs
    that were popular in 2021 is greater than the average number of
    unique Hip-Hop/Rap songs that were popular each year between 2012
    and 2021 (inclusive).

To generate data under the null, you decide to treat the songs that were
in the Top 200 in 2021 as a random sample from the songs that were in
the Top 200 in all ten years. As your test statistic, you use the
**number of unique Hip-Hop/Rap songs** in your sample.

**Complete the implementation of the hypothesis test given on the next
page.**

**Note:** Remember that songs can appear multiple times in `all_years`
--- many songs appear in the Top 200 multiple times in the same year,
and some even appear in the Top 200 in different years. However, for the
purposes of this question, you can assume that no two different
`"artist_names"` have songs with the same `"track_name"`; that is, each
`"track_name"` belongs to a unique `"artist_names"`.

    all_years = # DataFrame that contains all 10 years' charts

    # Helper function to compute the number of 
    # unique Hip-Hop/Rap songs in a given DataFrame
    def unique_rap(df):
        rap_only = df[df["genre"] == "Hip-Hop/Rap"]
        return rap_only.groupby(__(a)__).count()__(b)__[0]

    count_2021 = unique_rap(all_years[all_years["year"] == 2021])
    counts = np.array([])

    for _ in range(10000):
        samp = all_years.sample(__(c)__, replace=True)
        counts = np.append(counts, unique_rap(samp))
        
    p_val = (__(d)__).mean()
        

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1 pt\*) What goes in blank (a)?

( ) `"year"`

( ) `"artist_names"`

( ) `"track_name"`

( ) `"genre"`

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1.5 pts\*) What goes in blank (b)?

( ) `.shape`

( ) `.loc`

( ) `.iloc`

( ) Nothing (i.e. add `[0]` immediately after `.count()`)

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1.5 pts\*) What goes in blank (c)?

( ) `count_2021.shape[0]`

( ) `200`

( ) `365`

( ) `200 * 365`

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1 pt\*) What goes in blank (d)?

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB